Making the case for the agile technical BA.
In fact,
in my opinion I am a big believer in technical BAs as an
integral part of the development agile team.
Now I will illustrate how I see the level of effort of the
technical BA map to the agile process groups.
With the product owner, ideas, concepts,
very chunky epics,
and loosely defined features and requirements are usually in business terms.
The technical BA is helping the product owner convey and
relate this information to the dev team.
When designing the agile project,
the technical BA will be able to describe the idea or concept with
some detail at the epic level and in business terms.
When designing the agile releases,
the technical BA will be able to describe and explain user
stories with conciseness in business terms.
When designing the agile iteration or sprint,
they need to be able to describe and explain user stories with conciseness,
again, in business terms.
And with daily work,
be able to answer detailed questions or issues that the
development team may have of them.
The brightness of the orange from left to right represents
the level of effort of the technical BA,
brighter on the left and less so as you move to the right.
It is likely that the TBA, the technical business analyst,
will spend more time in project and release planning on the left moving right,
and likely less in iteration or sprint and daily work planning.
On the left we have pure business, and on the right, pure technology.
Hence,
the technical BA is supporting and enhancing the translation of those
business requirements into technical requirements.
Since business people are great at business and technical
people are great at highly technical activities,
it allows an opportunity for the technical BA to bridge the gap.
A technical BA has the technical chops to better decompose the
business requirements compared to epics and stories,
and communicate with the dev team to produce better results.
Let's see where the technical BA may fit into writing epics,
user stories, and tasks.
At the higher level we have epics and chunky features.
Then we break these epics down into user stories.
Both are written in business and user-oriented terms.
Both of these are likely candidates where a technical
BA could contribute very nicely.
Developers now take the user story and break it down into technical tasks.
The writing of these tasks is not in the domain of the technical BA,
and are written by software engineers and not analysts.
The technical tasks are written in the vernacular of developers,
typically following the SMART techniques,
which I'll also go over soon.
The more technical the TBA is,
the more they might possibly participate in these discussions and further
bridge the gap between the business and the technical solutions.
But I'm my opinion, the technical BA has other more important things to focus on,
such as the epics and the user stories.
Now let's take a look at how better to write user stories and better tasks with some ideas by Bill Wake.